Kale and White-Bean Stew
 
Combining Two Portuguese favorites—kale-and-sausage soup and a bean, sausage, and tomato stew—makes a simple, sensational one-pot meal. To keep the focus on the vegetables, we've used just a tiny amount of fresh sausage; you can add more, if you like, or substitute dried chorizo or pepperoni. 
 
Ingredients
 
 2 tablespoons cooking oil
 1/4 pound mild or hot sausages, casings removed (I use Andouille sausage and it's soooo good!!)
 2 onions, chopped
 3 cloves garlic, minced
 1 pound kale, tough stems removed, leaves washed well and shredded (about 1 1/2 quarts)
 3 1/3 cups canned diced tomatoes with their juice (two 15-ounce cans)
 1 1/4 teaspoons salt
 1/2 teaspoon fresh-ground black pepper
 4 cups drained and rinsed canned cannellini beans (two 19-ounce cans)
 
Directions 

Step 1
In a Dutch oven, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil over moderate heat. Add the sausage and cook, breaking the meat up with a fork, until the it loses its pink color, about 2 minutes. Add the remaining tablespoon of oil to the pan and then stir in the onions. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the onions start to soften, about 3 minutes. 

Step 2 
Add the garlic and kale to the pan and cook, stirring, until the kale wilts, about 2 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes, salt, and pepper; bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat and simmer, covered, until the kale is tender, about 15 minutes. 

Step 3
Stir the beans into the stew and cook until warmed through, about 5 minutes. If you like, mash some of the beans with a fork to thicken the sauce. 

Notes
Shred kale leaves as fine as possible when making quick soups and stews, so that each bite will include tender greens instead of a chewy mouthful. 

Suggested Pairing
Since this dish has a strong Portuguese influence, why not pair it with a rustic red from Portugal? Try one of the many delicious examples from the Douro or Ribatejo regions for a lusty combination of food and drink.

Original recipe here: https://www.foodandwine.com/recipes/kale-and-white-bean-stew
